1.Calculator(description)-:
The scientific calculator project using Python is a graphical user interface (GUI) application developed with PyQt5, a Python library for creating desktop applications. The calculator integrates with Python's math library for advanced mathematical computations which include the use of exponents, square root, logarithmic functions, trigonometric functions, and fundamental arithmetic operations.

Features
The key components and features of the scientific calculator project are briefly described as follows:

Designing a GUI with PyQt5:

The PyQt5 library is used in the design of the graphical user interface, which offers a visually pleasing and simple calculator layout. QPushButton widgets are used to implement buttons for numbers, arithmetic operations, trigonometric functions, and other mathematical operations.

Functionality:

Basic mathematical operations including addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division are supported by the calculator.

Percentage Calculation:

Users may rapidly calculate percentages of numbers with the calculator's support for percentage calculations.



2.Password generator-:
Password-based authentication is the first of defense of most information systems. Password security enhances the security of the whole information system. Therefore, administrators will formulate the various password strategies to help users to improve security for authentication. To determine the password vulnerability and to enhance user privacy, strong password is must. This paper focuses generation of strong password. Also, we enhance the traditional password generation strategy based on Mnemonic Shape, X-Pass is proposed. X-Pass combines the characters generated by our mapping strategy to help users create a safe and strong password.

3.Weather forecast-:
  Weather  prediction  is  the  application  of  science  and  technology  to  predict  the  state  of  the atmosphere for a given location. Here this system will predict weather based on parameters such as  temperature,  humidity  and  wind.  This  system  is  a  web  application  with  effective  graphical user interface. To predict the  future’s weather condition, the variation in the conditions  in past years must be utilized. The probability that it will match within the span of adjacent fortnight of previous year is very high .